people eight five one turn right the
undisputed queen of the skies the Boeing
747 series has transported millions of
passengers over the years and in recent
weeks celebrated its 50th birthday as
the industry has seen advancements in
technologies the Boeing 747 series has
also seen upgrades to make it more
attractive to its customers today with
production having ceased on 747 400 the
new kid on the block the 747-8 flies in
our skies over the past 50 years we've
seen developments with the aircraft as
mentioned but what's the actual
difference between the latest version
the 747-8 and the 747 400 in today's
video I'll explore just that looking at
the specifications the uses of the two
aircraft and also the new features and
or improvements found on the 747-8 we'll
begin with a look at the Boeing 747 on a
hole though the Boeing 747 according to
many is the queen of the skies and it
gets its title through its journey to
success the 747 series isn't like your
typical 787 or a330 neo at the Boeing
747 started with an idea and while that
is similar to the aircraft I just listed
that idea was doubted by everyone
supersonic travel or high-speed travel
at the time of the 747s creation was the
future according to many and aircraft
manufacturers at the time were exploring
the possibilities of releasing aircraft
that could fly at super speeds these
speeds would allow passengers to get
from point A to point B quicker than
ever before so when Joe Sutter put
forward the Boeing 747 a big
four-engined aircraft it was instantly
doubted however half a century on from
that day the 747 is still here and has
exceeded the life of many other aircraft
variants including that of high-speed
aircraft it's been an undisputed success
and one through its look has resulted in
being recognized at almost every single
Airport even if no one has an interest
in aviation that's because everyone
knows the jumbo in late 2011 we
witness the very first 747-8 Boeing's
latest 747 take to the skies however
this was actually the freight version
the passenger version or
intercontinental variant took to the
skies only six years ago in 2012 with
Lufthansa since that day the 747-8 on a
whole has been heavily criticized and
I'll openly admit I'm definitely one of
those people the 747-8 severely
underperformed and did not reach the
heights of what a lot of people were
expecting especially Boeing sitting on
just under fifty orders this total is
substantially lower than expected but in
saying that is there actually a
difference in the 747-8 to the 747 400
from the exterior the 747-8 is an
extended or stretched 747 if you will
with an added 20 feet or six meters over
the - 400 in addition to this the span
of the aircraft is 11 feet more or
roughly 4 meters more than the - 400
while the 747-8 has its differences
boeing didn't exactly want to market the
aircraft like that in fact boeing wanted
to keep the 747-8 not too different to
the 747 400 it was important to Boeing
that they kept with the 747s core design
and didn't change it too drastically
that the product which was loved by so
many was simply gone I'd be interested
at this point to hear your thoughts did
Boeing's will to keep the 747-8 as
similar as possible to its prior version
result in it not performing as well or
was it simply down to market demand and
where the trends had moved to let me
know as I was saying though the plan for
the dash 8 was to never make it to
different Boeing focused heavily on
improving the technology on board
especially in the cockpit and in
addition taking features from the 787
and implementing those onto the aircraft
in saying that all these changes did not
impact the flying style and it was
relatively easy to get used to for
pilots who took to the skies with the
747 400 the new intercontinental is 16%
more fuel efficient it has 13 percent
lower seat mail costs while also being
30% quieter for passengers on board
which is a huge bonus the 747-8 is like
any upgrade - and
existing family of aircraft and of
course will have its improvements and as
we close the video I'm going to take a
look at the various specifications but
not going into too much detail to
confuse you I'll specifically focus on
the range and a few other things the
747-400 can fly for thirteen thousand
four hundred and ninety kilometers or
seven thousand two hundred and
eighty-five nautical miles while the
newest 747-8 intercontinental can fly
for fifteen thousand kilometers or eight
thousand nautical miles so in regards to
the aircraft's range the - eight
certainly has one up on the older - four
hundred in regards to the maximum
takeoff weight which is another
important consideration when comparing
the two the - eight once again is one up
on the 747 400 with around eighty
thousand extra kilograms to play with
another factor to take a look at are the
freighter variants that come with these
aircraft both the - 8 and the - 400
series of aircrafts have a freighter
variant alongside them and the 747-8 has
been far more popular than any passenger
variant this is where I believe the
747-8 can thrive in the future
the added capacity deals a big benefit
to airlines who need it as there is
nothing else on the market that offers
cargo airlines as much space as that on
the 747-8 this is especially after
Airbus cancelled their a380 F and don't
look to be releasing a cargo aircraft of
that size any time soon the 747-8 F
similar to the 747 400 F is one of those
aircraft which Shaw ages but not as
quickly as passenger planes the - 8 F
similar to the - 400 F has allowed cargo
airlines an outlet for transporting
large amounts of cargo in the one flight
and as we see the Intercontinental
rapidly fade away in regards to orders
the cargo option is still going strong
and will likely welcome new orders as
the years go along ultimately like most
new variants the 747-8 is and improved
747 400 however Boeing have stuck to
their guns as best as they can and not
rapidly change the 747 series over time
and kept it true to what it was the
queen of the skies I'd like to thank you
very much for watching this can
Arsen video of mine if you have any
thoughts on either one of the aircraft
please don't hesitate to let me know in
the comment section below
it's a great place to just start a
general discussion about aviation as
people are more than happy to join in
and give their thoughts as well I'd like
to thank you very much and I do look
forward to you all joining me in the
next one
[Music]
[Applause]